# README For Battleship
1. There are totally 4 java files in the src directory's impl package. The Main.java is the main activation file/portal for my program.
2. As mentioned before, there are totally 4 java files for my project. Each contains a class. 
   - Main.java is the file that activates the whole program, which only contains a main method. 
   - The Board.java is a simple class contains     the general information and initilization for the board of the battleship game. It will initialize a char typed 2d array as the board, and filled with '0' for default values.
   - Deploy.java fulfills the functionality that asks the user to enter X and Y coordinates to deploy 4 sizes (2,3,4,5) of ships to the board. Also, it will set the ships for the computer based on randomized location. (Note: For the user input, the X coordinate will be A-J, so please enter the legal inputs, though I did the check for the coordinate that outside of the boundary. For the Y coordinate, please enter the number between 1-10. Entering other types of input may cause error)
   - Attack.java suffices the functionality for user and computer. It will continue asking for user and computer's input (X and Y coordinate) until there is a winner. Based on the description I got, the game will only end until all the ships occupied location are hit, which means all ships sunk. (Note: I did not handle if the user want exit before the game ended. Please exit the terminal or reactivate the game if you want to leave before there is a winner) 
3. For the procedure of deploying ships, the program will ask the user to enter legal coordinate again if the ship is outside of the board or cross already occupied grids of the board.
4. After each ship is put on the input location with input direction (0 for horizontal and 1 for vertical), the terminal will print out the current board for the user. This is for debugging purpose and it will be a good way to validate the correctness of the program. Also, after the computer deployed its ships on its board, the terminal will print out computer's board as well. This is only for debug purpose, which you can check if the attacking is correct. If you do not want this feature, you can simply comment line 66 of the Deploy.java.
```
b.show_updated(computer_board);
```
5. For the attacking part of the project, the program will ask for user's input and computer's input alternatively. And after each round, it will inform you if it is a hit or a miss for your opponent ship. If it is a hit, it will inform you the number of the ship you hit (from 2,3,4, or 5 in this game). If you hit the last piece of that ship, it will print that the ship is sunk instead of the ship is hit. (Note: I am not sure if we should allow the program to notify the ship number the user hit. If you think this is unneccesary, please let me know. I think it can be easily fixed.) After the one's ships all sunk, the program will print the name of the winner (player or computer) and show that the game ended.
6. Please contact me at siruiw4@illinois.edu if you have any question. I really appreciate this opportunity! Thank you!